Windows.build.md, before:

# Requirements

* [cmake](https://cmake.org/download)
* [Visual Studio Community](https://visualstudio.microsoft.com/thank-you-downloading-visual-studio/?sku=Community&rel=16)
* unzip (part of git for windows) or use [gui build-in solutions](https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/zip-and-unzip-files-f6dde0a7-0fec-8294-e1d3-703ed85e7ebc)
* [git for windows](https://git-scm.com/download/win) (optional)
* (optional) [curl](https://curl.se/windows/) for downloading files from internet


# Tesseract 4.1.1 Windows installation (64bit) in command line

## Initialisation of project structure

Destination for dependencies
```
    mkdir F:\win64
    set INSTALL_DIR=F:\win64
    set PATH=%PATH%;%INSTALL_DIR%\bin
```

Build tree:
```
    mkdir F:\Project & cd Project
```

Initialize VS environment:
```
    call "c:\Program Files (x86)\Microsoft Visual Studio\2019\Community\VC\Auxiliary\Build\vcvars64.bat" x64
```

## zlib build and installation

```
    curl https://zlib.net/zlib1211.zip
    "c:\Program Files\Git\usr\bin\unzip.exe" zlib1211.zip
    cd zlib-1.2.11
    mkdir build.msvs && cd build.msvs
    cmake .. -DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=%INSTALL_DIR%
    "C:\Program Files\CMake\bin\cmake.exe"  --build . --config Release --target install
    cd ..\..
```

## libpng build and installation

    curl https://vorboss.dl.sourceforge.net/project/libpng/libpng16/1.6.37/lpng1637.zip
    "c:\Program Files\Git\usr\bin\unzip.exe" lpng1637.zip
    cd lpng1637
    mkdir build.msvs && cd build.msvs
    "C:\Program Files\CMake\bin\cmake.exe" .. -DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=%INSTALL_DIR%
    "C:\Program Files\CMake\bin\cmake.exe"  --build . --config Release --target install
    cd ..\..

## leptonica build and installation

    curl -L https://github.com/DanBloomberg/leptonica/archive/master.zip --output leptonica.zip
    "c:\Program Files\Git\usr\bin\unzip.exe" leptonica.zip
    cd leptonica-master

or

    "C:\Program Files\Git\cmd\git.exe" clone --depth 1 https://github.com/DanBloomberg/leptonica.git
    cd leptonica

Then:

    mkdir build.msvs && cd build.msvs
    "C:\Program Files\CMake\bin\cmake.exe" .. -DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=%INSTALL_DIR% -DCMAKE_PREFIX_PATH=%INSTALL_DIR% -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release -DBUILD_PROG=OFF -DSW_BUILD=OFF -DBUILD_SHARED_LIBS=ON
    "C:\Program Files\CMake\bin\cmake.exe" --build . --config Release --target install
    cd ..\..


## tesseract build and installation

    curl -L https://github.com/tesseract-ocr/tesseract/archive/4.1.1.zip --output tesseract.zip
    "c:\Program Files\Git\usr\bin\unzip.exe" tesseract.zip
    cd tesseract-4.1.1

or

    git clone -b 4.1.1 --depth 1 https://github.com/tesseract-ocr/tesseract.git
    cd tesseract

Then:

    "C:\Program Files\CMake\bin\cmake.exe" .. -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release -DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=%INSTALL_DIR% -DCMAKE_PREFIX_PATH=%INSTALL_DIR% -DBUILD_TRAINING_TOOLS=OFF -DSW_BUILD=OFF -DBUILD_SHARED_LIBS=ON -DOPENMP_BUILD=OFF -DLeptonica_DIR=%INSTALL_DIR%\lib\cmake
    "C:\Program Files\CMake\bin\cmake.exe" --build . --config Release --target install
    cd ..\..

### Post installation

```
    cd F:\Project
    git clone --depth 1 https://github.com/tesseract-ocr/tessconfigs tessdata
    curl -L https://github.com/tesseract-ocr/tessdata/raw/4.1.0/eng.traineddata --output F:\Project\tessdata\eng.traineddata
    curl -L https://github.com/tesseract-ocr/tessdata/raw/4.1.0/osd.traineddata --output F:\Project\tessdata\osd.traineddata
    SET TESSDATA_PREFIX=F:\Project\tessdata
```

### Check

```
    %INSTALL_DIR%\bin\tesseract -v
    tesseract 4.1.1
     leptonica-1.81.0 (Mar 17 2021, 20:26:26) [MSC v.1928 LIB Release x64]
      libpng 1.6.37 : zlib 1.2.11
     Found AVX2
     Found AVX
     Found FMA
     Found SSE
```

# tesserocr build

```
    git clone https://github.com/sirfz/tesserocr.git
    cd tesserocr
```

```
    SET VS90COMNTOOLS=%VS140COMNTOOLS%
    SET INCLUDE=%INCLUDE%;%INSTALL_DIR%\include
    SET LIBPATH=%LIBPATH%;%INSTALL_DIR%\lib

    pip install -r requirements-dev.txt
    python setup.py clean --all
    python setup.py build
    python setup.py bdist_wheel
    pip uninstall tesserocr
    pip install dist\tesserocr-2.5.2b0-cp38-cp38-win_amd64.whl
```

## Post installation

Note: _adjust to you Python instalation_
```
    copy F:\win64\bin\*.dll "C:\Program Files\Python38\Lib\site-packages\"

```

## Check

```
    cd F:\Project\tesserocr
    python
    >>> import tesserocr
    >>> tesserocr.PyTessBaseAPI.Version()
    '4.1.1'
    >>> tesserocr.get_languages()
    ('F:\\Project\\tessdata/', ['eng', 'osd'])
    >>> from PIL import Image
    >>> image = Image.open(r'F:\Project\tesserocr\tests\eurotext.png')
    >>> with tesserocr.PyTessBaseAPI() as api:
    ...     api.SetImage(image)
    ...     print(api.GetUTF8Text())
    ...
    The (quick) [brown] {fox} jumps!
    Over the $43,456.78 <lazy> #90 dog
    & duck/goose, as 12.5% of E-mail
    from aspammer@website.com is spam.
    Der ,schnelle” braune Fuchs springt
    iiber den faulen Hund. Le renard brun
    «rapide» saute par-dessus le chien
    paresseux. La volpe marrone rapida
    salta sopra il cane pigro. El zorro
    marron ripido salta sobre el perro
    perezoso. A raposa marrom ripida
    salta sobre o cdo preguigoso.
    >>>
```

Commit message:

windows build readme patch by @zdenop
as discussed here in #268

Windows.build.md, after:

# Requirements

* [cmake](https://cmake.org/download)
* [Visual Studio Community](https://visualstudio.microsoft.com/thank-you-downloading-visual-studio/?sku=Community&rel=16)
* unzip (part of git for windows) or use [gui build-in solutions](https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/zip-and-unzip-files-f6dde0a7-0fec-8294-e1d3-703ed85e7ebc)
* [git for windows](https://git-scm.com/download/win) (optional)
* (optional) [curl](https://curl.se/windows/) for downloading files from internet


# Tesseract 4.1.1 Windows installation (64bit) in command line

## Initialisation of project structure

Destination for dependencies
```
    mkdir F:\win64
    set INSTALL_DIR=F:\win64
    set PATH=%PATH%;%INSTALL_DIR%\bin
```

*NOTE:* You can use other drive/disk than "`F`" (e.g. "`C`"). Make sure that it exists before any other steps.

Build tree:
```
    mkdir F:\Project & cd Project
```

Initialize VS environment:
```
    call "c:\Program Files (x86)\Microsoft Visual Studio\2019\Community\VC\Auxiliary\Build\vcvars64.bat" x64
```

## zlib build and installation

```
    curl https://zlib.net/zlib1211.zip
    "c:\Program Files\Git\usr\bin\unzip.exe" zlib1211.zip
    cd zlib-1.2.11
    mkdir build.msvs && cd build.msvs
    cmake .. -DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=%INSTALL_DIR%
    "C:\Program Files\CMake\bin\cmake.exe"  --build . --config Release --target install
    cd ..\..
```

## libpng build and installation

    curl https://vorboss.dl.sourceforge.net/project/libpng/libpng16/1.6.37/lpng1637.zip
    "c:\Program Files\Git\usr\bin\unzip.exe" lpng1637.zip
    cd lpng1637
    mkdir build.msvs && cd build.msvs
    "C:\Program Files\CMake\bin\cmake.exe" .. -DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=%INSTALL_DIR%
    "C:\Program Files\CMake\bin\cmake.exe"  --build . --config Release --target install
    cd ..\..

## leptonica build and installation

    curl -L https://github.com/DanBloomberg/leptonica/archive/master.zip --output leptonica.zip
    "c:\Program Files\Git\usr\bin\unzip.exe" leptonica.zip
    cd leptonica-master

or

    "C:\Program Files\Git\cmd\git.exe" clone --depth 1 https://github.com/DanBloomberg/leptonica.git
    cd leptonica

Then:

    mkdir build.msvs && cd build.msvs
    "C:\Program Files\CMake\bin\cmake.exe" .. -DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=%INSTALL_DIR% -DCMAKE_PREFIX_PATH=%INSTALL_DIR% -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release -DBUILD_PROG=OFF -DSW_BUILD=OFF -DBUILD_SHARED_LIBS=ON
    "C:\Program Files\CMake\bin\cmake.exe" --build . --config Release --target install
    cd ..\..


## tesseract build and installation

    curl -L https://github.com/tesseract-ocr/tesseract/archive/4.1.1.zip --output tesseract.zip
    "c:\Program Files\Git\usr\bin\unzip.exe" tesseract.zip
    cd tesseract-4.1.1

or

    git clone -b 4.1.1 --depth 1 https://github.com/tesseract-ocr/tesseract.git
    cd tesseract

Then:

    mkdir build.msvs && cd build.msvs
    "C:\Program Files\CMake\bin\cmake.exe" .. -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release -DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=%INSTALL_DIR% -DCMAKE_PREFIX_PATH=%INSTALL_DIR% -DBUILD_TRAINING_TOOLS=OFF -DSW_BUILD=OFF -DBUILD_SHARED_LIBS=ON -DOPENMP_BUILD=OFF -DLeptonica_DIR=%INSTALL_DIR%\lib\cmake
    "C:\Program Files\CMake\bin\cmake.exe" --build . --config Release --target install
    cd ..\..

### Post installation

```
    cd F:\Project
    git clone --depth 1 https://github.com/tesseract-ocr/tessconfigs tessdata
    curl -L https://github.com/tesseract-ocr/tessdata/raw/4.1.0/eng.traineddata --output F:\Project\tessdata\eng.traineddata
    curl -L https://github.com/tesseract-ocr/tessdata/raw/4.1.0/osd.traineddata --output F:\Project\tessdata\osd.traineddata
    SET TESSDATA_PREFIX=F:\Project\tessdata
```

### Check

```
    %INSTALL_DIR%\bin\tesseract -v
    tesseract 4.1.1
     leptonica-1.81.0 (Mar 17 2021, 20:26:26) [MSC v.1928 LIB Release x64]
      libpng 1.6.37 : zlib 1.2.11
     Found AVX2
     Found AVX
     Found FMA
     Found SSE
```

# tesserocr build

```
    git clone https://github.com/sirfz/tesserocr.git
    cd tesserocr
```

```
    SET VS90COMNTOOLS=%VS140COMNTOOLS%
    SET INCLUDE=%INCLUDE%;%INSTALL_DIR%\include
    SET LIBPATH=%LIBPATH%;%INSTALL_DIR%\lib

    pip install -r requirements-dev.txt
    python setup.py clean --all
    python setup.py build
    python setup.py bdist_wheel
    pip uninstall tesserocr
    pip install dist\tesserocr-2.5.2b0-cp38-cp38-win_amd64.whl
```

## Post installation

Note: _adjust to you Python instalation_
```
    copy F:\win64\bin\*.dll "C:\Program Files\Python38\Lib\site-packages\"

```

## Check

```
    cd F:\Project\tesserocr
    python
    >>> import tesserocr
    >>> tesserocr.PyTessBaseAPI.Version()
    '4.1.1'
    >>> tesserocr.get_languages()
    ('F:\\Project\\tessdata/', ['eng', 'osd'])
    >>> from PIL import Image
    >>> image = Image.open(r'F:\Project\tesserocr\tests\eurotext.png')
    >>> with tesserocr.PyTessBaseAPI() as api:
    ...     api.SetImage(image)
    ...     print(api.GetUTF8Text())
    ...
    The (quick) [brown] {fox} jumps!
    Over the $43,456.78 <lazy> #90 dog
    & duck/goose, as 12.5% of E-mail
    from aspammer@website.com is spam.
    Der ,schnelle” braune Fuchs springt
    iiber den faulen Hund. Le renard brun
    «rapide» saute par-dessus le chien
    paresseux. La volpe marrone rapida
    salta sopra il cane pigro. El zorro
    marron ripido salta sobre el perro
    perezoso. A raposa marrom ripida
    salta sobre o cdo preguigoso.
    >>>
```
